Participant Information Sheet

Introduction:
We, Callum Cory, Kelvin Ngor, Terence Qu, Ryan Tan and William Li, are students in the COMPSCI705/SOFTENG702 class. Our supervisor is Dr. Danielle Lottridge.

This Project:
Rationale: We want to better understand the relationship between meditation and problem solving tasks.
Aims: The results of this project will be used to better understand the physiological effects of meditation of problem solving tasks. 
Project Duration: We will work on this project until the end of semester 2020. 
Benefits: The final outcome of this project will be a new knowledge on the relationship between meditation and problem solving. This research will allow us to understand how meditation affects people's ability to problem solve. 
Risks: Participation in this research is optinal, and responses will be kept confidential in order to minimise your risks as a participant. 

Invation to participate:
Voluntary participantion: Your participation is vountary and you may decline this invitation without penalty.

Project Procedures:
If you choose to participate, you will be asked to attend two sessions at the University of Auckland downtown campus. During the sessions, you will be asked to wear a Neurosky Mindwave headset device and to complete several problem solving questions. The headset fits over the head with a clip to the earlobe. In one session, you will use your cellphone for 15 minutes, and in another session you will be asked to meditation for 15 minutes. Upon completion of these sessions, you will be asked to complete some problem solving questions. You will also be asked to fill out a questionnaire on how you found the tasks. The expected time commitment is 60 minutes or less. You can choose to stop the sessions at any time without penalty. 

Data storage, rentetion, destruction and future use:
How: We will collect recordings of EEG, performance on the problem solving tasks, and responses to a questionnaire. 

Right to withdraw from participation:
You can withdraw from the session at any time without having to provide a reason.

Confidentiality:
The preservation of confidentiality is paramount. The information you share through this session will remain confidential to only the involved researchers.
Your responses will be analysed separately from your contact information to ensure confidentialty. The information you provide will be reported in project reports written individually by each researcher, and may be published in an academic research conference and/or journal. This report and publication(s) will not identify you as its source. A copy of the research findings will be made available to you, if you wish. You can also contact any of the researchers listed below if you would like to obtain a copy of the findings. 


Consent Form

I have read the Participant Information Sheet, and understood the nature of the research. I have had the opportunity to ask questions and have had them answered to my satisfaction. 
- I agree to take part in this research. 
- I agree to my problem solving performance being recorded. 
- I agree for my EEG data to be recorded. 
- I understand that my responses will be analysed separately from my information to ensure confidentiality. 
- I understand that I am free to withdraw my participation at any time, and to withdraw any data traceable up to me one month after participation. 
- I understand that the data will be used for a research project and potential publications.
- I wish/do not wish to receive a summary of findings, which can be emailed or mailed to me at this address: 